Welcome to the Full Virtual Micromagnetics Simulation Environment!
------------------------------------------------------------------

This virtual machine contains a number of distributable software packages that
are often used by the micromagnetic community to simulate relevant
problems. These software can be downloaded from this machine; tarballs are
available in the home directory. Micromagnetic software includes (in no
particular order):

  | OOMMF 1.2a5 (The Object Oriented MicroMagnetic Framework): http://math.nist.gov/oommf/
  | Documentation: http://math.nist.gov/oommf/doc/

  | Nmag 0.2: http://nmag.soton.ac.uk/nmag/
  | Documentation: http://nmag.soton.ac.uk/nmag/current/manual/singlehtml/manual.html

  | Magpar 0.9 (Parallel Finite Element Micromagnetics Package): http://www.magpar.net/
  | Documentation: http://www.magpar.net/static/magpar-0.9/doc/html/

  | Fidimag 0.0.1 (Finite-difference Micromagnetic and Atomistic Package): http://computationalmodelling.github.io/fidimag/
  | Documentation: http://fidimag.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

For more information about these packages, see their respective websites and
examples available on the desktop, which walk the user through some examples
and tests where applicable. Users are also encouraged to install their own
simulation packages for use on this machine. To that end, a number of other
software packages have been provided:

  | FEniCS 1.5.0: http://fenicsproject.org/
  | The FEniCS project is a collection of free software tools with many features for solving differential equations in an automated and efficient manner.

  | gmsh 2.8.5: http://geuz.org/gmsh/
  | Netgen: http://sourceforge.net/projects/netgen-mesher/files/
  | gmsh and Netgen are 3D mesh generators often used for the finite element method in micromagnetic modelling.

Other lower-level tools are installed for convenience, such as paraview, grace,
gnuplot, the IPython (Jupyter) Notebook and more. This machine runs on 64-bit
Ubuntu with Xfce as a desktop environment.

For more information on Virtual Micromagnetics, visit
http://virtualmicromagnetics.org. Information about the environment that
created the base box that this machine is built with, such as the version
number, can be found in this `file
</virtualmicromagnetics_machine_characteristics.txt>`_. Please include this
information when reporting a suspected bug.

These tools are provided by the University of Southampton (Mark Vousden, Max
Albert, Hans Fangohr and others). Neither the University of Southampton nor the
authors assume any responsibility whatsoever for its use by other parties, and
makes no guarantees, expressed or implied, about its quality, reliability, or
any other characteristic. Please provide feedback about this machine to Mark
Vousden at mark.vousden@soton.ac.uk
